In this video I'll demonstrate how to work with alarms and vse fair.
And the first step is to make sure that we've got the center properly configured right so that's always
going to be the first and most critical step because if alarm's get generated we need to be notified
of them somehow.
We want to get an e-mail address or we want an asinine P-trap to be sent to our SMP server.
So we have a couple of different options of how we can get these messages through to us.
But none of those options are going to work unless we've properly configured the center to be able to
send those types of messages.
So here you can see I'm in the hosts and Questors view I clicked on my v center server I clicked on
settings and other general settings I clicked on it and we can modify the A.P. host.
So for example I could put in my email server here I could say that the email is going to be sent in
from service at trayner tests dot com and now I've got the ability to allow the sender to actually send
out alerts to my email address.
And most smartphones have an email address that you can also utilize to send text messages.
So if you want the alerts to go to your phone via text you just need to find out the email address for
your phone to receive text messages on and set that up here.
All right.
Or you can set up an SMP host.
So if I happen to have an Ensign and the host in my environment that I want to configure and send traps
to I can set that up here.
So that's really step one of configuring alerts in the center is to make sure that the center itself
is properly configured to send any of these triggered alarms to the appropriate resources.
Now that we've covered kind of the basic first step here of setting up alarming itself let's take a
moment to look at some of the alarms that we can create and how we can create them.
So here at the V.A. center level we can go ahead and look at the alarm definitions and you'll see a
bunch of alarms that are predefined built right into the center.
So for example let's pick one here called Data Store let's look for any alarms.
Specific to data stores.
And here we go a data store capacity alarm.
Right so this is an alarm that is going to trigger if my data store is running low on disk space and
I can click Edit and take a look at the specific settings of this particular alarm it's going to trigger
based on an event and the event is if I'm getting this system capability warnings from the storage provider.
So basically if the storage array itself is telling me that we're running out of space let's take a
look at an even simpler alarm.
Here we see data store usage on disk.
And this is a conditional arm and it's going to trigger if my data stores more than 75 percent fault
I will send a warning if my data stores.
Eighty five percent full or more it'll send a critical alert.
And what is it going to do in those situations.
We'll see an alert here in the east for a web client but it's not going to send me an e-mail.
It's not going to send in S and P-trap unless I specifically go in here and configure an action for
this alarm say let's send a notification e-mail to service at trayner tests dot com
So that's an important thing to understand about the alarms that are baked right into the center is
the fact that you know they're not really going to send you any kind of alert.
Right.
There's no alerts that's going to go to your e-mail or your SMP server by default.
You need to set those actions up
and you also need to set those actions up if you're creating a new alarm.
So let's set up a new alarm and I'm going to set up an alarm called the CPQ over 95 percent maybe I
want to know if my virtual machines are going over ninety 95 percent and CPQ I'm going to enable this
alarm so that it's turned on and I am going to monitor for a condition and the condition that I'm going
to Maatta monitor for is virtual machines usage.
If it's over 95 percent that's all I care about in this case so I'm going to make these two criteria
exactly the same.
If it's over 95 percent for five minutes I want to get these alerts.
And so that's my trigger.
If those criteria are met this alarm will trigger and it's going to force me to use slightly different
values.
Ok so I'll change the the warning to something a little bit lower here.
94 percent OK.
And so now I've created the triggers.
Right.
Those are the things that are basically going to set this alarm off.
And so what do I want to have happen.
All right.
And maybe I only really want to be notified.
Ninety five percent.
So I will say you know send an e-mail to my e-mail address.
Once we hit that 95 percent mark I don't really care about the 94 percent mark so I'm not going to set
any notifications for that.
And is warning me here.
I never really configured an e-mail server in the center so I have to do that.
But that's a really simple condition.
Alarm.
And when I create this alarm let me go back to the main screen of the alarm.
I'm going to name it something a little bit more descriptive called Rick demo alarm just so that I can
show you how this alarm gets propagated.
So now I've created an alarm and the center itself so if any of these victims that are sub objects go
over 95 percent CPQ that's going to trigger my alarm this alarm that I created here is going to be propagated
down to this ha cluster.
And let's look at our alarm definitions under H.A. cluster and it's also going to be propagated down
to all of the ESX hosts and all of the virtual machines that are managed by this vse center Scherrer.
So here we see the Rick DMO alarm on the H.A. cluster.
If I look at an individual host the alarm is going to be propagated down to those hosts as well.
So if I want to create a global alarm I'll create it at the center level and when I create those alarms
I will specify exactly what they're going to be monitoring.
Right so my Rick demo alarm is monitoring virtual machines.
So now that I've configured one alarm lets configure one more alarm.
I'm going to configure this one on the H.A. cluster instead of at the center level.
Who knows maybe I have multiple clusters where I want to configure different alarms and I want to create
an alarm that is going to notify me whenever and ESX host goes into maintenance mode.
So I'm going to monitor for a specific event.
It is not a condition a host entering maintenance mode is a one time event.
It's not an ongoing condition like high Seip you use your high memory usage.
It's an event.
So we're going to monitor for that event.
We're going to monitor our ESX I host and I'll set up my alarm trigger to say if a host has entered
maintenance mode I want to trigger the alarm
Riego.
So now I've created my trigger saying if the host enters maintenance mode I want this alarm to be triggered
and I want it to send me an email.
Create an S and M P-trap or I can set up all sorts of other actions here as well.
Right.
Things like taking the host out of standby mode which really wouldn't be applicable here.
But exiting main mode rebooting the host.
Right.
Maybe we want to automatically reboot the host if it gets put maintenance mode.
Probably not.
But I just wanted to show you this so that you could kind of get a feel for the many types of alarm
actions that can be carried out.
And there's alarm actions for virtual machines as well.
Right so if we wanted to let's say create a virtual machine alarm that monitor for Migration resource
error migration warning it doesn't really matter.
We go to the next screen we can set up all sorts of actions on our virtual machines.
Right we can have them get rebooted we can run a command on them we can suspend them we can migrate
them.
So alarm actions aren't really just notifications.
There's all sorts of actions that you can carry out on hosts or on virtual machines.
Automatically if an alarm was triggered.